As to be expected with an effort like this one, there’s plenty of misinformation, assumption and confusion going around. While no one document, (or 10,000), will clear everything up, an effort towards consolidating the more persistent ones might not be a bad idea.
This isn’t intended to be yet another post destined to be lost amongst competing interpretations. Its intent is one of providing facts and rationale which best represents the views of those whose efforts have combined to form the AMCF. If anything is said here which you believe to be untrue, any refutation should be accompanied by objective evidence to the contrary. Anything less is opinion, best expressed as such.
Why do you need to compete with the ACL? Aren’t you just rocking the boat/playing petty politics/trying to get rich, etc? 
In answering this popular theme, it’s helpful to begin with the overarching organizational intent behind the AMCF. The American Medieval Combat Federation is not a league, club, team, or any other organization serving the purpose of fielding a competitive group (neither competing as combatants, nor competing for members). It is formed as a federation. As a federation, the organizational intent is one of distributing both governance and responsibility across member groups. Simply put, the federation hopes to serve the growth of the sport in America (and the Americas, more on that later), by pursuing goals which seek to assure the ability for all fighters to compete in an environment whereby the best teams in America, regardless of league/team affiliation, represent themselves as the best teams in America. The AMCF, by design, does not compete with the ACL. It’s the AMCF’s goal the ACL, and any other league or team, is welcome to compete for the right to represent America in world championship competition, regardless of which one they belong to.
Why can’t the ACL teams do what they want when it comes to choosing which teams go to the IMCF World Championships? 
That’s been said more than once. While there are any number of parts of the whole that can be included in the answer to this question, one simple answer can stand on its own: To be able to claim you are a world champion, you have to compete in a selection process that does not exclude those who may be the better team, but could not compete because they weren’t dues paying members of the league that controls access to the world championship. Today, the founders of the ACL are part of the group which formed the IMCF. The IMCF, an international/worldwide federation of clubs and leagues, (unlike the AMCF, which limits its scope to America(s)), authorizes a world championship. It’s important to note this world championship is declared to be that of the best fighters in “all tournament categories”…none of those categories mentions required membership in the ACL. If the only teams allowed to compete for the right to represent the American team are limited to ACL teams, how can they call themselves the best? They could call the contest something else, but, then it wouldn’t be a world championship. The AMCF wants to represent all fighters who wish to earn a place in international competition, regardless of which league, club, team, etc., they belong to. If a group’s policies are consistent with current IMCF published policies, the AMCF hopes to see they get the chance to compete for the title of World Champion.
